In 2019, Pop Smoke and 808 Mellow dropped Dior, which completely changed Drill forever. That dark orchestral style took over and suddenly drill was worldwide. Fast forward 6 years, artists like Kyle Rich are keeping the genre alive, but it sounds fully shifted. We've gone from fast hats and cinematic strings to something bouncier with minimal drums. And in this video, I'm going to show you exactly how to make them. Also, if you want to level up your sound selection for trap and drill, on Friday the 30th of May, I'm dropping Pyro Burst, a huge bundle which fuses the best of both genres. You'll get over a thousand sounds including unique 808s, crunchy snares, vocal phrases, midies, presets, and way more. So whether you're making drill, hood trap, jerk beats, or something in between, Pyroverse has everything you need to stay ahead of the curve. The wait list is officially open, and if you join now, you'll receive early access, a huge discount, and exclusive bonuses. So click the link in the description to get on the list, and let's get straight into it. All right, so a big part of making Jerk Drill is using recognizable samples. because it's a New York thing. The sample that I've got in mind is from an old fabulous track called Breathe. He's from Brooklyn, so it makes sense. And it was released in 2004 and it was huge in the hip-hop scene at the time. So, I think New York people especially are going to know it. That's what makes these tracks so popular because the younger generation just like the sound of it and then people who grew up in the early 2000s will recognize the sample and it will bring back memories. Let me shut up and show you the sample. There's a few different parts. So, there's this part with the drums, but the main part I want to use is this section. And here just those two parts just blaze produce breathe. And I want to chop it in a similar way so it stays recognizable. I was breaking down the chop he did and it was mad. So I'll show you. You got to be careful when you chop these type of samples cuz the time signature is different. If you listen to this, it's 3 4 1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3. So you got to work around it. You'll see. I'm just going to get a rough idea of the BPM. Let's click tap. I'll just tap along to it. [Music] So somewhere around 120. And for jerk drill, a lot of the BPM seems to be around 140, but then there's a lot of slower stuff around 120, 130. So it's completely up to you. I'm just going to start by taking this section, but I'm going to have a gap at the start. Oh, you know what? Let's just set our BPM first. Let's go like 145. Then all I do here is just stretch it until it sounds right. So yeah, it'll be like that. Just make sure that stretch button is checked. And then I'm holding alt and left click. And all I'm looking for is the transients. So these parts where the waveform peaks a bit. I'm just thinking that should line up. All right. So we'll have that [Music] twice. And then this one again. So that's sounding pretty good. Now just going to fade the end out. Now in the original beat there's that section but then there's chops taken from earlier on as well in this part. So I want to take that where he says breathe. We're going to pitch it as well. Let's see. Let's pitch it up. We're going to add some effects as well so it's not going to cut so suddenly. So it was this part as well. It's all going to make sense soon. [Music] Then there's another vocal somewhere in this middle section. [Music] Yeah, I think it's this part here. Man, producers used to be mad creative on the NPC. They take traps from all over. See how this fits. We're going to make these ones unique, though. And then just send those to the same mixer. Take out the lows. Then we're going to add some delay. Set the time to four. Something like this. Just so there's more consistency. I'm going to add some bass notes with a piano. You can use any piano. I'm just using Addictive Keys for this. Yeah, maybe like that. So now we got a nice foundation. I think it's going to sound crazy when it's done. You know, a lot of the melodies for these beats are pretty simple, especially the sample chops because you just want to keep them recognizable. It's more about the drums and effects you add. But I want to build on this a little bit. Let's go to Pyro Verse. It's not fully done yet, but it sounded sick so far. Even something like this, you know. Yeah, here we go. Let's just drown out a bit. See what else we could use. See, these accents have become a good part of my workflow, man. Maybe just the [Music] one. Might add a little top line with the piano as well. Probably going to keep one part really simple for the verse, but then I want to build up some energy throughout. Might throw some halftime on this one and just come up with nice top line. Think even just a couple [Music] notes. Just add a lot of [Music] delay. Yeah, maybe that blends in more. That's just two notes, too. Pretty simple. All right, let's copy this over. And in Breathe, there's one part of the hook where a guitar comes in, and it's taken from a completely different part of the sample. So, let's find [Music] it. Somewhere around [Music] here, this part here. But he actually played it backwards. So, let's get those same chops. So, it's like this. It's going to bring these in time. and then this third one. And then this piano again, but we're going to take this small part and then do this three times. But we'll match the notes with the piano. All right, might be enough like this for now. So, let's get some drums in the Magma drum kit. There's a ton of creative 808s, but if you want to make proper jerk beats, most of the time they're just using the spins, man. So, I might use this in one part and then switch it out for a creative one. Set it to cut itself. We'll just follow these notes. And also with jerk drill, you want to bring that out up for the spins just so it's a bit shorter. And then we can boost it a bit [Music] too. So that's like the simple pattern, but you can spice it up. Might add one here. [Music] Now, a lot of jerky here is snap. So, we could use one, but there's no set rules like that. Let's grab a snare like this. And with this one, we're kind of following an eight-way pattern. [Music] then we can make a couple [Music] changes. Let's try the [Music] snap. Yeah, feeling that sounding mad with that main snare following the eight weight pattern. You don't even have to do that. It's just personal taste. might mute some. One thing that I always hear in these beats though is this crash [Music] effect. I think we should grab a open hat for this one. [Music] You know what? I'm going to grab a counter snare. And no set plan for this. I'm just going to see what feels [Music] right. Let's try this [Music] one. Working on some effects fills with the kit. Something like this might be good. [Music] And this [Music] one add some reverb to the snap as [Music] well. Let's try a fill too. This fills just has so much energy every [Music] time. All right, let's start that ending as [Music] well. Okay, so when I get to this point where I feel like I might be adding enough drums, I just started to think about how I can keep it interesting and switch things up. So, for example, in the first half of the 808s, I might just make it a bit simpler. And then after 16 bars, I might introduce a new sound. So, we'll [Music] see. And let's also pitch this one up an octave. [Music] I wonder if we match that [Music] piano. Then just cut the [Music] drums. All right. So, I'm happy with this whole section. I think what we need to do here is just split this and then switch out that spins for something. Let's copy this over just for something more creative. Let's go with more of a drill. Wait. Let's try this raw dog one. kind of a mad name [Music] though. So that could work. See what we could use for the second one. I think something like this. Let's just copy this pattern [Music] in. Yeah, perfect. Might get rid of this whole layer. We'll get rid of the piano here, too. And then we'll bring this snare in right at the end. You don't even really need a kick for these beats, but I'm going to add one just in this one part. Boost this up, [Music] [Applause] [Music] though. All right. Now, let's grab one more section. We'll just bring the sample, piano, bass, and then I think that one snare. Then yeah, we'll repeat the snares like this. And then maybe a [Music] subbase. Think these down an octave [Music] though. Just cut the piano as well. Yeah, that's the one. That's mad. Then of course, I'm going to add my signature sound. Let's get one of these effects in as [Music] well. And for that bridge part, we're just going to switch out that main snare. You know what? I'm going to make that intro just like the original again. So, yeah. Just found these drums as [Music] well. Yeah. Then these last two All right, let's hear it from the [Music] beginning. J [Music] cactus drops crazy. So this part's real open for an artist. [Music] Oh, got the [Music] snare. I've got a bit of a switch up. Just a new bass. [Music] Let me know in the comments who you could hear on this. And now just back to a bridge. I hope you guys are feeling this one. If you want to join the wait list for Pyro Burst, the links in the description or for more videos, click up here. [Music] Yeah. Yeah. [Music]