I'm going to show you how Curves Resolve takes your track from this to this. &gt;&gt; Hi there, I'm Shai Fishman, product lead at Waves. I'm going to show you how Curves Resolve solves frequency clashes between tracks intelligently by listening to other tracks in your production. Whatever you're working on, production, mix, arrangement, there are always elements fighting for the same space. Let me show you how to get started. The first clash is between the instruments and the vocals. Let's hear the instruments. They sound great. It doesn't seem like there's a problem with those tracks. Well produced, well arranged. Let's hear the vocals. &gt;&gt; Vocals are beautiful. They don't need to be EQed at all, but together. Have a listen. Go down. &gt;&gt; You can hear the problem. The vocals are overwhelmed and not coming out. Now, I don't want to bring up the volume because it messes with the balance and brings down the energy of the beat around it. What I want to do is create a pocket in the instruments and only when it's needed to make room for the vocals. Essentially, I want to process the instruments based on the vocals. So, I'll load the plugin on the instruments track because that's what I want to affect. And I'll send the vocals through side chain because that's what I want to protect. Now, I just need to turn this main knob. Make it this far. Push the pedal. &gt;&gt; As you can hear, the plug-in carves space for the vocals inside the mix and responds directly to the track it's listening to. And I'm done. So, here we have the classic conflict, kick and bass. This is where mixes usually fall apart. There's too much energy in the low end. It's lacking separation and definition. Let's resolve it. I'll load the plugin on the bass because that's what I want to affect. And I'll send the kick through side chain because that's what I want to protect. In this drop-own menu, I can tell Resolve that we have a kick coming in through side chain. And it'll optimize its settings for this kind of conflict. And now all I have to do engage the main knob. This is great. It actually changed the profile of the bass and now the bass and kick groove better. And because I used auto makeup gain, I didn't lose any volume. So the bass feels louder than it did before. All right, here's a much harder situation to resolve of guitar versus keys, which are equally as important in the production. And not only that, but they're also completely overlapping in frequencies. Let's have a listen. In this case, I'd like to process the guitars based on the keys. I want to show you one more thing. Remember the vocal example from the beginning? I want to make it even better by using the learn function. It allows Resolve to listen to the side chain and create an average frequency response. Now you can use this slider to decide how dynamic or how steady you want the processing to be. &gt;&gt; Let's hear the full track with everything before and after Resolve. These are just the basics. Resolve offers a lot more features for advanced control, including attack, release, precision, and even a smart ducker. In fact, the music in this video has been ducked by my voice this entire time. That's it for me. Thanks for watching.